Add troubleshooting guide for prometheus istio server OOM (#10150)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/monitoring/10-01-prometheus-istio-server-oom.md

---

> title: Prometheus Istio Server restarting or in crashback loop due to OOM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Prometheus Istio Server restarting or in crashback loop
```
The title looks a bit long on the website (taking 3 lines) and I think it's enough to mention the memory issue in the description.

type: Troubleshooting
---

> Prometheus Istio Server scrapes metricd from all the envoy side car. It can restart or have crashbackloop due to insufficient memory. This issue can be tackled in following ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prometheus Istio Server scrapes metrics from all envoy side cars. It can restart or have a crashback loop due to insufficient memory (OOM). This issue can be tackled by following these steps:
```

    ```
    Increase the limits for memory
    ```yaml
    resources:
      limits:
        cpu: 600m
        memory: 2000Mi
      requests:
        cpu: 40m
        memory: 200Mi
    ```
2. Drop labels for the istio metrics.
    
   Edit the configmap for prometheus-istio server
   ```bash
    kubectl edit configmap -n kyma-system monitoring-prometheus-istio-server
    ```
    Edit following
    ```yaml
    metric_relabel_configs:
      - separator: ;
        regex: ^(grpc_response_status|source_version|destination_version|source_app|destination_app)$
        replacement: $1
        action: labeldrop
    ```
    Change regex to
    ```yaml
    regex: ^(grpc_response_status|source_version|source_principal|source_app|response_flags|request_protocol|destination_version|destination_principal|destination_app|destination_canonical_service|destination_canonical_revision|source_canonical_revision|source_canonical_service)$
    ```
    save the configmap and restart prometheus-istio server for the config map changes to take effect
    ```bash
    kubectl rollout restart deployment -n kyma-system monitoring-prometheus-istio-server
    ```

>     > Warning: The side effect of this change is graphs in kiali would not work.

Author: Usually we are putting warning below the changes.

>     > Warning: The side effect of this change is graphs in kiali would not work.

Reviewer 2: Ok, then makes sense

---
title: Prometheus Istio Server restarting or in crashback loop due to OOM
type: Troubleshooting
---

> Prometheus Istio Server scrapes metrics from all the envoy side car. It might crash because of OOM when the cardinality of the istio metrics is increasing too much. This is usually is happening for a high amount of workloads performing a lot of communication to other workloads. This issue can be tackled in following ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prometheus Istio Server scrapes metrics from all envoy side cars. It might crash because of OOM when the cardinality of the Istio metrics increases too much. This usually happens when a high amount of workloads perform a lot of communication to other workloads. This issue can be tackled by following these steps:
```

> 1. Increase the memory for prometheus-istio server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Increase the memory for `prometheus-istio-server`:
```

    ```bash
    kubect edit deployment -n kyma monitoring-prometheus-istio-server
    ```

>     Increase the limits for memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Increase the limits for memory:
```

    ```yaml
    resources:
      limits:
        cpu: 600m
        memory: 2000Mi
      requests:
        cpu: 40m
        memory: 200Mi
    ```

> 2. Drop labels for the istio metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Drop labels for the Istio metrics. 
```

>    Edit the configmap for prometheus-istio server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Edit the ConfigMap for `prometheus-istio server`: 
```

   ```bash
    kubectl edit configmap -n kyma-system monitoring-prometheus-istio-server
    ```

>     Edit following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Edit:
```

    ```yaml
    metric_relabel_configs:
      - separator: ;
        regex: ^(grpc_response_status|source_version|destination_version|source_app|destination_app)$
        replacement: $1
        action: labeldrop
    ```

>     Change regex to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Change regex to:
```

    ```yaml
    regex: ^(grpc_response_status|source_version|source_principal|source_app|response_flags|request_protocol|destination_version|destination_principal|destination_app|destination_canonical_service|destination_canonical_revision|source_canonical_revision|source_canonical_service)$
    ```

>     save the configmap and restart prometheus-istio server for the config map changes to take effect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Save the ConfigMap and restart `prometheus-istio-server` for the changes to take effect:
```

    ```bash
    kubectl rollout restart deployment -n kyma-system monitoring-prometheus-istio-server
    ```

>     > Warning: The side effect of this change is graphs in kiali would not work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **CAUTION:** The side effect of this change is graphs in Kiali will not work.
```

## Create an override
Follow these steps to [override](/root/kyma/#configuration-helm-overrides-for-kyma-installation) the existing configuration with a customized control plane definition.

> 1. Add and apply a ConfigMap in the `kyma-installer` Namespace in which you set the value for the **memory limit** attribute to 4Gi and **dropping the labels** from istio metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add and apply a ConfigMap in the `kyma-installer` Namespace in which you set the value for the **memory limit** attribute to 4Gi and **drop the labels** from Istio metrics.
```
